README.md, before:

# .dotfiles
Bash Configuration Repo for Personal Use

# Starting

To create this repo verify or make a file called `$HOME/.bashrc`

Clone the repo into your `$HOME/`

```bash
git clone https://github.com/christopherfickess/.dotfiles.git

code $HOME/.bashrc
```

add the following lines to the dotfiles

```bash
if [ -f "$HOME/.dotfiles/.bashrc" ]; then  source "$HOME/.dotfiles/.bashrc"; fi
```


To use wls use the following in gitbash terminal 

```
wsl ---install 


Install List

- Python 3.14
- Kubernetes 
- AWS CLI
- GitBash
- Docker
- Go
- TailScale (VPN)
- VS Code
- Perl
- Perplexity
- Mattermost
- (Need to Do) Mattermost CLI

Repos to install

- [.dotfiles](https://github.com/christopherfickess/.dotfiles)
- [Mattermost](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost)
- [Mattermost-Cloud](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-cloud)
- [Mattermost-Cloud-Monitoring](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-cloud-monitoring)
- [Mattermost-operator](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-operator)
- [Mattermost-IaC](https://github.com/mattermost/delivery-iac)

Then open a new admin terminal and run the `windows_first_time_setup` function. This will install all relavent tools and WSL config with Fedora and all SRE Libs needed. Additionally, this will sync the Bash configuration between windows and WSL Linux subsystems.

Commit message:

Updating Guidance and migration of Type of Mattermost Deployment to user defined auto config

README.md, after:

[TOC]
# .dotfiles
Bash Configuration Repo for Personal Use

##  Setup

To create this repo verify or make a file called `$HOME/.bashrc`

Clone the repo into your `$HOME/`

```bash
git clone https://github.com/christopherfickess/.dotfiles.git

# Will configure your bashrc to work
source $HOME/.dotfiles/setup.sh && setup_bashrc   
```

### Org Setup

To Configure Mattermost Org Bash Functions run the following commands

```bash
mkdir -p $HOME/.dotfiles/tmp

echo "MATTERMOST=TRUE" >  $HOME/.dotfiles/tmp/env.sh
# OR
echo "MATTERMOSTFED=TRUE" > $HOME/.dotfiles/tmp/env.sh
```

### WSL Configuration Setup Procedures

To use wls use the following in gitbash terminal. This has been configured to install specific tools using the Distro of choice or by using the specific DISTRO=FedoraLinux-43. 

To use this the wsl function has been over written to do preconfigurations by simply running the wsl command. To pick a different Distro type 

- GitBash is a prereq for this

```bash
wsl <distro-name>
```



### Tool useful Install List

- Python 3.14
- Kubernetes 
- AWS CLI
- GitBash
- Docker
- Go
- TailScale (VPN)
- VS Code
- Perl
- Perplexity
- Mattermost
- (Need to Do) Mattermost CLI

### Repos to install

- [.dotfiles](https://github.com/christopherfickess/.dotfiles)
- [Mattermost](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost)
- [Mattermost-Cloud](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-cloud)
- [Mattermost-Cloud-Monitoring](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-cloud-monitoring)
- [Mattermost-operator](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-operator)
- [Mattermost-IaC](https://github.com/mattermost/delivery-iac)

Then open a new admin terminal and run the `windows_first_time_setup` function. This will install all relavent tools and WSL config with Fedora and all SRE Libs needed. Additionally, this will sync the Bash configuration between windows and WSL Linux subsystems.
